In this demonstration, you will learn how to view and compare commits.
Let's switch to Visual Studio.
As you can see, we work now as user Thomas with my user account.
In Team Explorer, let's go to the Branches page.
I have already checked out the master branch.
Let's right-click it here and let's select Pull to
ensure that we have the latest changes.
As you can see, the repository is already up to date.
Now let's right-click on the master branch and let's select
here from the context menu View History.
Here you can see now the history of that master branch.
You can see here the commits that we have created on the feature/
coffeeShopCommands branch to implement the coffee shop commands.
We have created a pull request to merge this feature/ coffeeShopCommands
branch into the master branch in the previous module.
Here you can see the merge commit for the pull request.
Interesting is that here is the author Thomas,
but actually Julia completed this pull request.
When you hover this commit,
you can see that the author of the code changes is Thomas,
but the committer, the person who completed the pull request,
is Julia.
Now what you can do in this history view,
you can right-click a commit and you can select here View Commit Details.
Instead of selecting this context menu,
you can also just double-click the commit in this view,
and then the Commit Details will open up in Team Explorer.
So here on this commit, you can even see that it has a related pull request.
Let me double-click on the previous commit and you can see that we
adjusted here the CoffeeShopCommandHandler.cs file.
In this history view,
you can also select two commits by pressing down the Ctrl key.
So let's select here, for example, these two commits.
Now let's right-click and now you can select here Compare Commits.
Let's do this.
Now you see Team Explorer shows the Compare Commits page.
Here you see the two commit IDs that you compare with each other.
You also can see the details of the two commits.
So,
the first commit is the commit where we merged the pull
request to handle the coffee shop commands.
The second commit is the merge commit where we merged the feature
PaperCupsInStock branch into the master branch.
At the bottom, you can see the changes between these two commits.
So now you can double-click here, for example,
the Program.cs file, and now you can look at the changes.
So you can see here that Thomas introduced the command handlers.
So comparing two commits is a very powerful feature.
Now let's go back to the history view of the master branch.
Another important feature that this history view has is this button
here that allows you to show only the first parents.
This actually means that you will see only the commits that
were made on the master branch because we are viewing here
the history of the master branch.
In our sample here, the commits on the master branch are this merge commit,
this merge commit, this merge commit,
and these five commits at the bottom that we did directly on the master branch.
So let's press this button and then we should only see these commits.
Now you see the three merge commits and the five commits
that we did directly on the master branch.
So if you use a feature branch strategy,
you will only see the merge commits when you select this button here.
Now let me uncheck it again.
So this view here allows you to view the history of a branch. In the next clip, you will learn how to view the history of a specific file.